This is a short Getting Started document to help someone get going with COrnLathe. 


As described in the Readme file, once the COrnLathe for Windows zip file is downloaded, 

unzip it in a folder in a convenient location. You will have to unzip some of the files within that zip file 

depending on how you downloaded the data. 

Navigate to the BIN folder, find mylathe1.exe and double click to run it. You may have to download JAVA 

if your computer doesn't already have it loaded.


If mylathe1 opens and COrnLathe starts up that’s great. It is helpful to Pin the icon to the Windows ribbon 

on the bottom of your screen so you don't have to go looking for it later.


It’s easiest to start with one of Bill’s examples under the Favourites tab, top left. 

Click that, click the + beside the COrnlathe examples folder, and double click bamboo.xml to get started.

You can drag it around in the top right Outline Editor window holding the right mouse button while moving the mouse. 

Zoom with the mouse wheel. In that example there are only two Outline points, top and bottom, and the Cutpoints are in between. 


You will probably have to click the In/Out view icon at the bottom left of that window, and maybe the Render button to see the Bamboo pattern properly illuminated.

The pattern is on the Outside of the form.


It is helpful to find and Copy the entire Examples folder then paste it somewhere else, safe from the program since 

when you save the file, the original is overwritten.
 
 
In the Examples file you should find Test.xml. This is a simple Outline defined by 2 points with no Cutpoints.

This is a starter file to play with. Add Outline points, change shape, try different cuts, etc. Be aware that when you save it, 

the original will be overwritten. The whole Save As function doesn’t work so this is a workaround.

In the bottom right window you can see Outline and Cutpoints buttons. To add an outline point click the Outline button and 

double click where you want it in the top right window alone the Orange line. To move that Outline point, left click and 

hold and drag it to the side or up, etc. Thickness of the form can be changed in the Bottom Right window. 

If you left click and hold just left of a Cutpoint number you can get rid of them by dragging them to the Right off the window.

You can see what happens in the top left window if you select the View3D window tab.
 

The Bottom Left Data Navigator window gives you access to the Cutpoint features = phasing, amplitudes, frequency, etc. 

Left clicking on a Cutpoint in the Data Navigator window highlights it. The tab next to Data Navigator is where you can 

edit that point’s information. These can be changed one Cutpoint at a time. Click Render to update the 3D image if it

wasn't already done by the program.


If you are creating a new model, make one Cutpoint and customize it in Data Navigator as you want it. 

Then you can double click in the Outline Editor window on the orange line to duplicate it. You can go back later and 

change the phasing as desired.


To add a particular type of Cutpoint, select the type top Right edge, Left click and drag to the model outline. 


Bill’s Help file describes the significance of each colour line in the Outline Editor window.

For fast rendering it’s better to use a Pointed cutter otherwise it can take forever. Bamboo needs the Concave cutter of course. 

A simple PDF of the Help files included in the program is also in the Github repository for those who prefer to read paper.


There are many, many features to this program so poking around different windows to find them is worthwhile. 

Start by looking under the Window Tab on the top ribbon. There you will see Pattern and Rosette editors

for example.

I hope you enjoy playing with COrnLathe. J. Hankinson Jan 2023